History of Trinidad Municipal College

Mr. Paciano Petarco initiated the plan for the project of establishing a college institution in the town. He then consulted and sought the help of the Municipal Mayor that time Atty. Avelino N. Puracan, who consequently assured him to look for a competent financier/sponsor to start the project.

Incidentally, the Mayor met a certain Antero Delos Reyes, owner of a private vocational school, in an occasion in Davao where the Mayor was invited as guest speaker by Trinidadnon Association in Davao. He requested Mr. Delos Reyes, who eventually granted his request, to put up a branch of his school in Trinidad; thus, emerged the Trinidad Institute of Technology (TIT) offering short-term vocational courses, such as typewriting, stenography, tailoring and bookkeeping.

However, TIT did not last longer than a semester. Earnest in their intention to establish a lasting college in the town, Mayor Puracan and Mr. Petarco spearheaded some affluent Trinidadnons to form themselves as incorporators; thereby instrumental in the recognition and registration in the Securities and Exchange Commission in 1985 of the Trinidad Junior College (TJC), the courses being offered were in demand by the masses such as: 2 years Diploma in Applied Technology major in Electricity and Construction, 2 years Associate in Secretarial Administration, 2 years Automotive Mechanic Course, and 1 year General Clerical Course. In 1993, a degree course of Bachelor of Arts was recognized by the Department of Education Culture and Sports (DECS).

After more than a decade of existence, TJC faced a pressing risk of extinction. Wise enough in finding a solution, the incorporators came up with a redemptive decision in a meeting to turn over the ownership, management, control and responsibility of the college to the Local Government Unit (LGU) of Trinidad under the leadership of then Municipal Mayor Engr. Filadelfo A. Garcia, Vice Mayor Francisco U. Gonzales and the Sangguniang Bayan Members during their term. This significantly transformed the college into what it is now known as Trinidad Municipal College from 1997 up to the present.

At present, under the dynamic leadership of Mayor Judith R. Cajes, wife of Cong. Roberto C. Cajes, TMC starts to evolve physically and academically to meet the standards of a dynamically changing world of education and employment.

To date TMC has a total of ten courses, namely: Bachelor of Arts (AB), Bachelor in Elementary Education (BEED), Bachelor in Secondary Education (BSED), Bachelor of Science in Information Technology (BSIT), Bachelor of Science in Office Administration (BSOA) - LEP, Associate in Office Administration (BSOA LEP), Bachelor of Science in Criminology (BSCrim), Automotive Servicing NC-II, Electrical Installation and Maintenance NC-II, and Refrigeration and Air Conditioning NC-II.

The courses offer the students the opportunity of acquiring certified skills and competencies as attested by certificates given every year level or term; thus, providing the students with a greater possibility of employment and at the same time giving students the opportunity to advance in professional field through the ladderized education program.

Paving the way to new history, TMC is now more committed to live up and pursue her unselfish mission and goal, and to materialize her noble vision - to become a model institution of public educational services second to none.

Vision

A model institution with fully developed academic, technical-vocational education and skill of manpower with positive work attitudes anchored in the core values of leadership and professionalism essential in the creation of self-reliant citizens.

Mission

To build well-trained, competent and employable professionals, who will meet the demands of the world market.

Slogan

TMC is committed to public educational services second to none.

Philosophy

TMC adheres to the philosophy that education is life and growth guided by faith in God and love of fellowmen in an environment of competitiveness, professionalism and excellence.

Goal

TMC aims at evolving a whole individual as a child of God and a member of a democratic society who is professionally competent that can provide leadership and advance knowledge, well-trained in a certain vocation not only to help himself but to help others, and practical yet responsible and obedient to the laws of God and to the laws of the government.

Creator

This AI assistant, named Cypher, was created and developed by CajesJM, a Bachelor of Science in Information Technology student at Trinidad Municipal College, as a from-scratch character-level language model trained on TMC's official information.
